# Overview

I use this repository to show the work I accomplished whilst doing research for [Professor Lei Wang](https://www.eaps.purdue.edu/people/profile/wanglei.html) of Purdue Earth, Atmospheric, and Planetary Science Department (EAPS). I researched planetary atmospheres with a focus on the Martian atmosphere and was in an informal BootCamp for Geophysical Fluid Dynamics. I dived into aerography, Rossby waves, Annular Modes, and other processes during the process. I also gave presentations on the Martian climate and Martian climate data sets. This will include some amount of code, as well as resources and presentations I made/used.

I conducted research in the Fall semester of 2022 with Professor Lei Wang. I worked with the EMARS and MACDA datasets and interpreted results with the help of the Panoply netCDF viewer. I further deepened my understanding of Rossby waves and the climate process. This research was crucial for building my research skills because I failed in many ways, which helped me understand my limits and strengths. I learned many skills like reading, understanding, and critiquing a scientific paper, giving cogent presentations, and finding relevant research questions and topics within the community.

Throughout this research, I worked with the MACDA and EMARS data sets. The MACDA Data which stands for Mars Analysis Correction Data Assimilation is a reanalysis dataset which covers four years of the martian atmospheric data (MY 24 - MY 27). It is constructed by TES (Thermal Emission Spectrometer) and MGS (Mars Global Surveyor) and is 63 files in total. Each of these files covers 30 Martian sols with each sol spanning 24 Martian hours and data being captured every two hours. This dataset covers a limited number of variables including “co2ice” (surface_frozen_carbon_dioxide_amount), “Ls” ("solar_longitude), latitude and longitude, etc. The Ensemble Mars Atmosphere Reanalysis System (EMARS) dataset version 1.0 offers hourly gridded atmospheric data for Mars, covering Mars Year (MY) 24 through 33 (1999 to 2017). This reanalysis dataset provides the most accurate estimate of Mars' atmospheric conditions by integrating sparse observations with a dynamical model, weighted by their uncertainties. EMARS employs the Local Ensemble Transform Kalman Filter (LETKF) for data assimilation, using the GFDL/NASA Mars Global Climate Model (MGCM). Assimilated observations include temperature data from the Thermal Emission Spectrometer (TES) and Mars Climate Sounder (MCS). The dataset features gridded fields of temperature, wind, surface pressure, and various atmospheric elements such as dust, water ice, and CO2 ice. Reanalyses like this are valuable for scientific and engineering research, aiding in the study of transient eddies, the polar vortex, thermal tides, dust storms, and spacecraft operations. The dataset is available for download as netCDF files and is detailed in an accompanying paper.

File Information:
+ Mars Climate Project guide:
+ my AGU profile [here](https://agu.confex.com/agu/fm22/meetingapp.cgi/Person/1197083)
